so we are here to talk about four ways
to get to 10 billion just 10 billion by
working asynchronously
and we're going to cover a couple
different sections one is
the current state of work that we're all
experiencing and why
asynchronous is so important in that
context and some of the companies that
have been deploying certain strategies
that help them get to that coveted 10
billion
so i hope that you all have your coffee
i got my notes
and let's roll
so remote and hybrid are here to stay
i think that for most people in the
audience that that's especially true
and we fundamentally believe that
flexibility is the future
can we all agree with that
yes awesome thank you
what we believe is that flexibility
means freedom
it means that you can actually work when
you want to work and where you want to
work from
and we believe that freedom is worth
fighting for
but what exactly do we mean by fighting
like what what are we fighting and it's
actually that
more so than ever
people are experiencing burnout
that 85 percent say that their work
stress is greater today than it was five
years ago because
you have message overload you are
constantly on
that 60 percent
report a significant increase in
meetings that we are in back to back to
back
all day long
and
the counterpoint to that which is kind
of crazy is the fact that 52 percent say
that even though they're in back-to-back
meetings that they're experiencing
workplace loneliness i mean i think that
there's been a little bit of euphoria
coming disaster because first conference
in a few years but unfortunately we
can't do saster every week so we're
going to have to figure out some sort of
other tactic
and i think that it's important that we
adapt to remote and hybrid because of
that flexibility and freedom that we
were talking about right before this so
something has got to give
because this is unsustainable based off
of the stats that we see here
and so i want to go through four
examples of modern work which is modern
work is directly correlated with
asynchronous and it's more than just
thinking differently it's actually
putting asynchronous at the heart of
your communication and collaboration
and that's why there's so much
excitement and investment and adoption
of asynchronous technologies but my
personal belief is that we are still
just in the earliest days of what
asynchronous can do
for the modern work revolution
so i'm going to tell you some stories
about gitlab
figma
of course got a touch on loom and then
also upwork
but before we get into the story
specifically i actually want to level
set because i had a few conversations
over the past few days and when we were
saying async video for loom they're like
can you explain what async is
sure
so
let's level set on what synchronous
versus asynchronous says synchronous is
real time communication it means that
two or more people are communicating at
the same time and this is like some
examples of this are in person virtual
scheduled or impromptu examples are
meetings and phone calls
and it's actually
studies show that it's best utilized for
bursty communication if you can imagine
having a ball in your hands and when
you're in a meeting you want to pass
that ball to as many different people as
frequently as you can because that means
you're exchanging ideas that is what
synchronous time is all about but it's
also
for culture building like everybody
feels like getting together in person is
incredibly powerful
okay now on asynchronous
or async
this is this means that it's not
happening in real time somebody is
documenting something sending it to
somebody else and then it's consumed
with a lag time in between the classic
example of this would be snail mail when
people used to send letters handwritten
uh or now email or things like company
wikis like notion or confluence and
project management or trello
or asynchronous video like loom and what
it's best used for
is for deep work
and it's also best used for information
dissemination how do i get an idea from
one person to another
and what's fascinating now that we're a
little bit deeper into this modern work
revolution is that there's some middle
ground too slack being a great example
of
messaging at work and there's an element
of like i gotta reply in real time but
you can also use it for asynchronous or
figma you can use their software to
collaborate in real time on a board but
it's also used for designing deep uh
work as
well
so we believe that
asynchronous the most important thing is
that it enables you to work from
wherever
whenever you want to and whether you're
in a home office or whether you're like
our loo mate jess who's in an rv touring
around the country with their family it
truly asynchronous allows you to work
from whatever whenever
and so now we'll get to some of the high
growth high value startups that i
mentioned before that are adapting
asynchronous in specific ways and that
my hope is that you understand that at
every stage of the company life cycle
whether it's building great cultures or
building great products building great
teams
or scaling external resources that you
will see how asynchronous can truly help
empower your company
so let's start with the asynchronous
employee experience building a really
great culture
we hear it's the biggest pain point for
our customers and from our peers at this
point is how do you do this in a digital
hq world
well git lab is a great example of this
they are constantly on
top startups list of fortune and quartz
fasco they actually just were on
linkedin's top startups for 2021 last
week when it rolled out so they're a
great place to start in terms of what
are they doing what's working and
the crazy part is they're the world's
largest uh remote company fully remote
1300 employees that are in 65 different
countries so they've had to be
deliberate from day one about their
processes how do they build camaraderie
and culture in a remote world
and it's just hard the employee
experience is a nuanced mosaic and
they've clearly done something right
so gitlab
has defaulted to async first
they are one of the pioneers of this it
has been one of the trademarks of their
employee experience from the very
beginning they quite literally wrote the
book on operationalizing and mastering
asynchronous communication and their
ethos has always been what we talked
about before which is empowering
employees to feel as fulfilled as
possible by working where they want to
work from and when they want to work and
what i find most interesting beyond
their
asynchronous onboarding or learning and
development practices that are largely
asynchronous are the rules that they use
to bring asynchronous as default into
focus and truly make it a reality
i love i genuinely love
elegant
memorable and powerful questions and
from a communication and collaboration
perspective the one that you see here on
the screen i believe is one of the best
and it's directly from gitlab's employee
handbook so let me read it for you how
would i deliver this message present
this work or move this project forward
right now
if no one else on my team or in my
company were awake
maybe they're at saster and they're not
replying to their messages as quickly as
they could
you know how do i move work forward this
is it this this quote this question
underpins the async mindset and their
employee handbook is 13 000 pages that
is not an exaggeration it's an open code
repository it's way too much to read end
to end but i really do believe that if
you practice this question if you
personally practiced it if your team
started practicing it or you know
ideally as it scales up to the company
you will get pretty far along in your
async journey
but i think that there's some other best
practices that i want to cover from them
as well a single question can't answer
at all unfortunately so a few other
async best practices that they have is
one that's called share knowledge they
make information transparent and
available to every employee by default
like i said their employee handbook is
open source anybody can commit to it and
anybody can read it including the public
you all can go to
employeehandbook.gitlab.com
and they
they also have
the practice of communicating publicly
we don't just send internal emails here
is the quote
team slack channels and
then later team leaders actually decide
what information needs to be permanently
available and then integrated into that
employee handbook so they are always
communicating publicly and then they
also clarify what needs to be
synchronous
they are very specific about the times
in which you should use synchronous
versus describing all the times that you
should use asynchronous because that's
your default
and we lost the slides
um
so what i would say is that the
by defaulting to asynchronous if they
were to have all right we're back cool i
i think i could have gotten it you know
the rest of the
presentation um
they specifically say like kickoff
meetings
roles and expectations and deadlines is
a really great use case of synchronous
time they also say that if you're
communicating with clients default to
what they're comfortable with so have
client meetings synchronously but
everything else should be async and then
they also encourage every single
employee regardless if you're an ic or a
leader to challenge existing norms and
assumptions they actually go as far as
to provide copy and paste text in their
handbook to turn down meetings saying
that this just isn't useful for us to do
synchronous we should do asynchronous so
clearly i am a big fan of that employee
handbook and that you all should go
check it out if you're interested in a
13 000 page read
alright so speaking of being a fan
i am also a fanboy of this company that
you see up on screen i think that we're
generally all familiar with figma
they are building
delights and purpose and excitement and
software that you don't really see
as much these days and they're also
building products largely asynchronously
they're empowering their customers and
users to do the same
so we've all heard the stories about
building garages with waz and steve and
larry and sergey and hewlett and packard
everyone in a garage
but what about building products
asynchronously what about building
products distributed i think that
they've proved it with fig jam when they
built it entirely remote and largely
asynchronously
so
figma like every other company went
remote at the beginning of covid and the
pandemic
they
about three or four months into the
pandemic they were
fully burnt out on meetings
fig mates started thinking about how do
we bring products earlier into the
product process but we didn't want to do
it with a ton of meetings all the time
so they came together they started
sharing ideas on how to connect and what
ultimately became the idea of fig jam
that launched in 2021
is the opposite of what they did with
their original products their flagship
products which took years to build in
stealth they built from end to end in
six months that was out in private beta
so
that was quick pace
and they also got high praise from harsh
critics which are designers no offense
to any designers in the crowd
so by using asynchronous they were able
to move very quickly they accelerated
feedback loops they use it for internal
and external feedback and they also had
better coordination across the board
ultimately enabling fig jam to get to
product get to market faster with higher
confidence
so let's zoom into a couple different
ways that they use asynchronous feedback
the first one is they did it for
internal they actually created a slack
channel called fig jam dash feedback and
while most companies probably have that
what they did was they made it a public
channel and they actively proactively
tried to get as many fig mates to give
feedback in that channel as possible and
what that allowed for is what they said
that they had more representative voices
across the entire company than they had
ever had across different product
experiences that they built which led to
faster feedback as well
they had all figmates not just pde give
feedback it was sales managers it was
their communication directors it was
their support team literally everyone
across the company was giving feedback
on fig jam and it had over 100 unique
figmates and over 2 000 messages just in
the internal dog fooding phase and that
included bug reports and feedback new
ideas and small but really important
details like the fact that the support
team member and their communication
director both said that it was hard to
pick a different color on post-it notes
so everybody just kept using the same
colors right like that that's something
that they cross-reference across the
feedback and was like this is really
important and they were able to
prioritize better as a result of that
and then on the external side of it i
thought what they did was really clever
and smart they actually created fig jam
boards and had all of their customers
give feedback asynchronously directly in
fig jam and that was alpha testers from
companies like discord and netflix
square and stripe and by doing so they
were able to collect hundreds of
comments including video comments that
were super rich in detail and so the big
takeaway here is that more asynchronous
leads to higher volume higher quality
and faster speed of feedback which leads
to better product faster
all right again naturally have to talk
about loom right this is our bread and
butter but we got employee experience
down we got building products
asynchronously in the books now how
about hiring great teams a quick show of
hands in terms of who's struggling a
little bit to hire for their teams right
now
yeah i mean it's almost universal we're
feeling this too um and so i wanted to
share a little bit about the some of the
things that we do in our interview
process that helps us hire really great
people faster and if you're not familiar
with loom we're actually an asynchronous
video product so we allow people to
record and send out videos not in real
time and we're also to be clear i wanted
to establish the fact that we're a
remote first company it's one of our
five cultural values and that doesn't
just mean that we don't believe in
offices and everybody's remote we
actually do believe in offices we want
to get people together we want to enable
them to socialize and have camaraderie
but remote first means
helping everybody engage as a first
class citizen no matter where they are
and that means leaning into asynchronous
in the same way gitlab has including and
especially during our interview and
hiring process
so a huge benefit of hiring talent
from a remote first perspective is that
we got to tap into a global talent pool
from the earliest days that we were able
to find roommates that have been on the
team for years now at this point that we
wouldn't have otherwise considered or
other companies didn't consider and this
is changing for most all companies as we
go to hybrid and remote and you realize
that oh this actually works we don't
have to be scared of it anymore and so
how do we set up our employees for
success here and i think that this is so
exciting from
a humanity perspective which is
divorcing physical location from
opportunities and i think that that
should be an exciting prospect for
everybody is that we get to work with
the best people no matter where they are
and i think that marc andreessen
actually
said it really eloquently which is that
we may at long last be able to shatter
the geographic lottery opening up
opportunity to countless people who
weren't lucky enough to be born in the
right place
that's pretty profound and it's
something that we want to amplify as
much as we possibly can at loom
so today's market is that great talent
have choices that's why it's a struggle
to hire people is that they have choices
and what they're looking for is they're
looking for great roles they're looking
for great brands they're looking for
great opportunities and they're looking
for a team that they can actually
vibe with
and they want to find those companies
and opportunities and brands that stand
out and so we think about how do we
connect with our potential roommates in
a deep way during the interview process
and for loom
remote has not been
the rule or it's not been the exception
it's been the rule for us and we've
needed to be great at remote hiring from
the earliest days at loom and so five
years doing it it's not bad we have a 93
satisfaction rating for our interview
experience so what specifically do we do
in order to get to that 93
we use our own product we use
asynchronous video which helps us
establish connection with candidates it
helps us better assess candidates during
the interview process and it helps us
stand out from the crowd
and that starts with candidate outreach
we actually have a loom video associated
with every single job description that
we send out and we also have recruiters
send personalized looms saying what we
like about their backgrounds and why we
think that they might be a great fit and
so immediately they should have watched
at least one loom before they have their
first conversation and this actually
enables them to build a more keen sense
of what it would be like to be on our
team i think it's humans a lot of people
quote that people are the most important
thing when they're looking for their
next role so how do you get them insight
into the people you also give them more
insight into the interview process so
they go into it eyes wide open of what
it exactly is that we're putting them
through and then it also gives them a
sense of what it's like to be illuminate
and how we work and i'll get into that a
little bit more
so
specifically one of the interviews that
we do and this is across all different
positions is that typically you have
some sort of take-home that is part of
your interview process and we actually
ask our candidates to do this
asynchronously and from our perspective
it's a win-win from both sides it
actually reduces our overall synchronous
meetings that we have to do during the
interview process
and it also helps candidates put their
best foot forward they don't have to
rely on nailing it in those 45 or 60
minutes that's make or break for their
career so we believe incorporating
asynchronous video will have candidates
present on their own terms more so than
they are right now versus submitting an
artifact and presenting live and it
allows us at loom to get a better sense
of their skills
so we also hear from candidates that it
helps them feel more confident than
doing a live presentation of their work
and i think that it's a huge bonus that
it's representative of the way that we
work at loom as well we tend to send out
a loom video before every meeting so
that way everybody's on the same page
before that meeting and that should be
representative of how we do our
interview process as well
and what this leads to is a 50 higher
pass-through rate versus when we've done
live take-home presentations during our
super day process and the reason being
is that we take some of the interview
process and we make it async is that we
review that take home in advance of us
scheduling that super day
and what this does is that it minimizes
those unnecessary interviews by not
making by not scheduling the second or
third interview after take home as a
stacked super day we break that out we
do the review we give them the feedback
and then we say if you are a past then
we'll come in and we'll just discuss
what you sent in versus having you
present
and candidates felt like by turning in
asynchronous video it was their absolute
best shot because unfortunately
sometimes we hear that people will
record three four five times and they
want to put their best foot forward but
that also means that they probably would
have done that first one synchronously
and maybe that wasn't their best version
of themselves so asynchronous is
incredibly powerful
and so this is one of my personal
favorites in the interview process is
the fact that we use looms at the offer
stage we congratulate people on why
specifically we're excited to work
together for every roommate who's part
of the interview process so it can be
five six seven looms in a page that we
send over to them and this helped get
prospective roommates over the finish
line it builds a personal connection
with them in the team and it shows why
we're genuinely excited to work with
them and genuine excitement is
infectious it really is so you watch
that loom from somebody that's excited
on your team and you're like wow i could
really see myself working together with
them so our acceptance rate is 72
which is 11 above industry standard in a
really tough market
all right so the last example that i
want to walk through is a platform
called upwork i'm sure that you all have
run into it as well but just as a
refresher is that they are a freelancer
marketplace you can hire people for
whatever tasks that you may need to have
done particularly in the knowledge
workspace and they have leaned into
asynchronous work in a really powerful
way over the past few years and seen
great results they try and make
collaboration
more efficient
and that's not just for traditional
full-time employees this is for
contractors you're working with people
that you don't really know
and the freelancer economy is booming
the upwork stock was up over 600 in the
last 18 months so clearly something is
going on with the freelancer marketplace
and i think that this has massive
implications for the modern worker
who is maybe more of a freelancer than
they were traditionally and the modern
company who needs to leverage these
resources in a way that they haven't had
to traditionally and so building
the mechanics of a fully functioning
productive team
and how you compose outsourced versus
full-time employees and especially if
you're doing outsourced it might be on
really difficult time zones and so like
that adds to the complexity is difficult
and they said that asynchronous work is
absolutely imperative to making these
relationships work at scale
so
what they saw in by
in the limitations of synchronous early
on is that they ran extensive surveys
and they did quantitative and
qualitative analysis and what it
actually kept coming back is that
synchronous tools just weren't as
effective as asynchronous communication
that they had 21 of phone calls that
were scheduled to the platform were
never completed for whatever reason
could be freelancer could be the client
they also said that any companies that
provided a required meeting as part of
their process actually significantly
correlated to delays and slower project
uh finish times and so 50 they even
built a synchronous uh video
conferencing product into their offering
and 57 of clients only used it once and
never again so synchronous was failing
them
and what they did was they ended up
putting
asynchronous
into the heart of everything that they
did by providing content that the
freelancers needed at every single stage
and that the client needed at every
single stage they focused on the
asynchronous component of it and they
generally used the practices that i
talked about in the previous three
examples and what this led to was faster
completion of multi-phase complex
projects and a significant reduction of
meetings across the board from their
platform and so the companies that can
confidently leverage freelancer work
workforce with less meetings clear
communication and faster completion of
projects will win and they're gonna be
they're gonna do it with async
so
my hope for you all to have takeaways
from today
is of course the principles and
practices of get lab and figma loom and
upwork but more importantly that there's
a bigger trend at play right now and
it's that we truly believe
that we're in the earliest innings of
exploring that there's a better way to
work
that at loom we like to imagine a worlds
where teams have time for focused and
fulfilling work we saw that with gitlab
and creating space for deep work with
fewer meetings and less burnout and that
individuals can be seen and heard and
that fig jam giving equal voice to their
customers and to internal teammates in
order to make sure that everybody is on
equal footing and that organizations are
more transparent and human and this
starts with engaged connected global
teams enabling understanding and
seamless communication
asynchronous has been and increasingly
will be
will
will be the enabler of the modern work
revolution
so now go forth
and
what the heck
it's supposed to be async like
asynchronous
not an async with a tap and drain
this whole presentation should have been
done asynchronous because then i would
have stuck the landing i would have like
sent in the best presentation possible
i know that joke sorry
had to do it um
so everyone here
is now perfectly equipped to build a 10
billion dollar company so go forth and
use asynchronous to do so and thank you
for attending my saster talk
[Music]
you